[docs] Introduce the Run Tests guide + refactor CLI and API (#4919)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/guides/basic-guides/run-tests.md

---
layout: docs
title: Run Tests
permalink: /documentation/guides/basic-guides/run-tests.html
---
# Run Tests

> You can run TestCafe tests from the [command line](../../reference/command-line-interface.md) or the [JavaScript/TypeScript API](../../reference/api/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run TestCafe tests from the [command line](../../reference/command-line-interface.md) or [JavaScript/TypeScript API](../../reference/api/README.md).
```

```sh
testcafe safari ./tests/my-fixture.js
```

```js
const createTestCafe = require('testcafe');
const testCafe       = await createTestCafe('localhost', 1337, 1338);
const runner         = testCafe.createRunner();

await runner
    .src('./tests/my-fixture.js')
    .browsers('safari')
    .run();

testCafe.close();
```

TestCafe also allows you to create a [configuration file](../../reference/configuration-file.md) where you can define test run settings. You can then omit these settings in the command line or API to use values from the configuration file.

## Specify Tests to Run

> You must provide a file path or a path to a directory with tests you want to run in the [second command line argument](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#file-pathglob-pattern):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should specify a path to a file or directory with tests you want to run in the [second command line argument](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#file-pathglob-pattern):
```

```sh
testcafe chrome ./tests/
```

In the API, use the [runner.src](../../reference/api/runner/src.md) method:

```js
await runner
    .browsers('chrome')
    .src('./tests/')
    .run();
```

*Related configuration file property:* [src](../../reference/configuration-file.md#src)

### Run Tests From Multiple Sources

You can specify multiple test files or directories:

```sh
testcafe safari ./js-tests/fixture.js ./studio-tests/fixture.testcafe
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('safari')
    .src(['./js-tests/fixture.js', './studio-tests/fixture.testcafe'])
    .run();
```

### Use Glob Patterns

TestCafe also supports [glob patterns](https://github.com/isaacs/node-glob#glob-primer) to run a set of files that match a specified pattern:

```sh
testcafe firefox ./tests/*mobile*
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('firefox')
    .src('./tests/*mobile*')
    .run();
```

### Filter Tests and Fixtures by Name

> Use the [-t (--test)](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#-t-name---test-name) command line argument or the [runner.filter](../../reference/api/runner/filter.md) method to run a test by its name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the [-t (--test)](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#-t-name---test-name) command line argument or [runner.filter](../../reference/api/runner/filter.md) method to run a test by name:
```

```sh
testcafe safari ./tests/sample-fixture.js -t "Click a label"
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('safari')
    .src('./tests/sample-fixture.js')
    .filter(testName => testName === 'Click a label')
    .run();
```

*Related configuration file property:* [filter.test](../../reference/configuration-file.md#filtertest)

You can also use the [-T (--test-grep)](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#-t-pattern---test-grep-pattern) argument to specify a `grep` pattern for the test name:

```sh
testcafe chrome ./my-tests/ -T "Click.*"
```

*Related configuration file property:* [filter.testGrep](../../reference/configuration-file.md#filtertestgrep)

> To run a fixture by its name, use the [-f (--fixture)](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#-f-name---fixture-name) argument:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a fixture by name, use the [-f (--fixture)](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#-f-name---fixture-name) argument:
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('chrome')
    .src('./my-tests/')
    .filter((testName, fixtureName, fixturePath, testMeta) => {
        return testMeta.device === 'mobile' && testMeta.env === 'production';
    })
    .run();
```

*Related configuration file property:* [filter.testMeta](../../reference/configuration-file.md#filtertestmeta)

To filter fixtures with specific metadata, use the [--fixture-meta](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--fixture-meta-keyvaluekey2value2) argument:

```sh
testcafe firefox ./my-tests/ --fixture-meta device=mobile,env=production
```

In [runner.filter](../../reference/api/runner/filter.md), the fixture metadata is available in the `fixtureMeta` parameter:

```js
await runner
    .browsers('firefox')
    .src('./my-tests/')
    .filter((testName, fixtureName, fixturePath, testMeta, fixtureMeta) => {
        return fixtureMeta.device === 'mobile' && fixtureMeta.env === 'production';
    })
    .run();
```

*Related configuration file property:* [filter.fixtureMeta](../../reference/configuration-file.md#filterfixturemeta)

## Specify Target Browsers

> You must specify the browsers where you wish to run tests in the first command line parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should specify the browsers where you want to run tests in the first command line parameter.
```

> TestCafe automatically detects the supported browsers installed on the local machine. Use [browser aliases](../../concepts/browsers.md) to identify the target browser:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TestCafe automatically detects supported browsers installed on the local machine. Use [browser aliases](../../concepts/browsers.md) to identify the target browser:
```

```sh
testcafe safari,chrome ./tests/
```

In the API, pass an array of browser identifiers to [runner.browsers](../../reference/api/runner/browsers.md):

```js
await runner
    .browsers(['safari', 'chrome'])
    .src('./tests/')
    .run();
```

### Run Tests in All Installed Browsers

Use the `all` alias to run tests in all locally installed browsers [TestCafe can detect](../../concepts/browsers.md#locally-installed-browsers):

```sh
testcafe all ./tests/
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('all')
    .src('./tests/')
    .run();
```

### Test in Portable Browsers

You can also specify the path to a browser executable to [launch portable browsers](../../concepts/browsers.md#portable-browsers). Use the `path:` prefix followed by the full path:

```sh
testcafe path:d:\firefoxportable\firefoxportable.exe ./tests/
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('path:d:\firefoxportable\firefoxportable.exe')
    .src('./tests/')
    .run();
```

> Note that if the path contains spaces, you should escape them in the command line [as described in this topic](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#portable-browsers).

### Use Headless Mode

> TestCafe can run tests in [headless mode](../../concepts/browsers.md#headless-mode) in browsers that support it. Put the `:headless` suffix after the browser name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TestCafe can run tests in [headless mode](../../concepts/browsers.md#headless-mode) in browsers that support it. To run tests in headless mode, put the `:headless` suffix after the browser name:
```

```sh
testcafe "chrome:emulation:device=iphone X" ./tests/sample-fixture.js
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('chrome:emulation:device=iphone X')
    .src('./tests/sample-fixture.js')
    .run();
```

### Test in Cloud Testing Services

TestCafe can also run tests in cloud testing services such as BrowserStack or SauceLabs. Install the [browser provider](../../concepts/browsers.md#browser-providers) for your service and specify the browser alias as described in the browser provider documentation.

For instance, to use SauceLabs, install the [testcafe-browser-provider-saucelabs](https://github.com/DevExpress/testcafe-browser-provider-saucelabs) module from `npm` and run tests as follows:

```sh
testcafe "saucelabs:Chrome@52.0:Windows 8.1" ./tests/sample-fixture.js
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('saucelabs:Chrome@52.0:Windows 8.1')
    .src('./tests/sample-fixture.js')
    .run();
```

### Test on Remote and Mobile Devices

To run tests [remotely on a mobile device](../../concepts/browsers.md#remote-testing) or a computer with no TestCafe installation, specify `remote` instead of the browser alias in the command line:

```sh
testcafe remote ./tests/sample-fixture.js
```

> TestCafe generates a URL and prints it in the console. When you visit this URL from the remote device, TestCafe runs tests in this browser. To run tests in several remote browsers, specify their number after the `remote` keyword: `remote:2` or `remote:4`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TestCafe generates a URL and displays it in the console. When you visit this URL from the remote device, TestCafe runs tests in this browser. To run tests in several remote browsers, specify their number after the `remote` keyword: `remote:2` or `remote:4`.
```

## Provide a Proxy URL

If your network uses a proxy to access the internet, specify the proxy URL to TestCafe. Use the [--proxy](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--proxy-host) command line argument or the [runner.useProxy](../../reference/api/runner/useproxy.md) API method:

```sh
testcafe chrome ./my-tests/ --proxy proxy.mycompany.com
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('chrome')
    .src('./my-tests/')
    .useProxy('proxy.mycompany.com')
    .run();
```

*Related configuration file property:* [proxy](../../reference/configuration-file.md#proxy)

You can also specify URLs that should be accessed directly. Pass the list of URLs in the [--proxy-bypass](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#--proxy-bypass-rules) command line argument or a [runner.useProxy](../../reference/api/runner/useproxy.md) parameter:

```sh
testcafe chrome ./my-tests/ --proxy proxy.corp.mycompany.com --proxy-bypass localhost:8080
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('chrome')
    .src('./my-tests/')
    .useProxy('proxy.corp.mycompany.com', 'localhost:8080')
    .run();
```

*Related configuration file property:* [proxyBypass](../../reference/configuration-file.md#proxybypass)

## Live Mode

> Live mode ensures the TestCafe process and browsers remain active while you work on tests. You can see test results instantly because the tests are restarted when you make changes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can simplify the first sentence to "ensures that TestCafe remains active"?

Author: Maybe, but I'm not sure that browsers are implied when you say 'TestCafe'. Maybe we can write: `Live mode ensures TestCafe and the browsers remain active while you work on tests.`

![Live mode demonstrated in action](../../../images/testcafe-live.gif)

> > This feature replaces the `testcafe-live` module. This module is now deprecated.

Reviewer 2: > This feature replaces the `testcafe-live` module. This module is now deprecated.

This feature replaces the deprecated `testcafe-live` module.

?

Author: Yes, I was just trying to be official as hell.

```sh
testcafe chrome tests/test.js -L
```

In the API, create a [live mode runner](../../reference/api/livemoderunner/README.md) with the [testcafe.createLiveModeRunner](../../reference/api/testcafe/createlivemoderunner.md) function and use it instead of a [regular test runner](../../reference/api/runner/README.md).

```js
const createTestCafe = require('testcafe');
let testcafe         = null;

createTestCafe('localhost', 1337, 1338)
    .then(tc => {
        testcafe         = tc;
        const liveRunner = testcafe.createLiveModeRunner();

        return liveRunner
            .src('tests/test.js')
            .browsers('chrome')
            .run();
    })
    .then(() => {
        testcafe.close();
    });
```

### How Live Mode Works

When you run tests with live mode enabled, TestCafe opens the browsers, runs the tests, shows the reports, and waits for further actions.

Then TestCafe starts watching for changes in the test files and all files referenced in them (like page objects or helper modules). Once you make changes in any of those files and save them, TestCafe immediately reruns the tests.

> When the tests are done, browsers stay on the last opened page so you can work with it and explore it with the browser's developer tools.

Reviewer 2: > browsers stay

the browsers stay

### Console Shortcuts in Live Mode

* `Ctrl+S` - stops the current test run;
* `Ctrl+R` - restarts the current test run;
* `Ctrl+W` - turns off/on the file watcher;
* `Ctrl+C` - closes opened browsers and terminates the process.

## Quarantine Mode

The quarantine mode is designed to isolate *non-deterministic* tests (that is, tests that pass and fail without any apparent reason) from the other tests.

When the quarantine mode is enabled, tests run according to the following logic:

1. A test runs at the first time. If it passes, TestCafe proceeds to the next test.
2. If the test fails, it runs again until it passes or fails three times.
3. The most frequent outcome is recorded as the test result.
4. If the test result differs between test runs, the test is marked as unstable.

Use the [-q (--quarantine-mode)](../../reference/command-line-interface.md#-q---quarantine-mode) command line flag or the `quarantineMode` option in the [runner.run](../../reference/api/runner/run.md) method to enable quarantine mode:

```sh
testcafe chrome ./tests/ -q
```

```js
await runner
    .browsers('chrome')
    .src('./tests/')
    .run({ quarantineMode: true });
```

> > Note that quarantine mode increases the test task's duration if you enable it on your test machine because failed tests are executed three to five times.

Author: Moreover, I'm not sure I understand now what `if you enable it on your test machine` means.
I think it should be: *Note that quarantine mode increases the test task's duration because failed tests are executed three to five times.*
